---
layout: post
title:      "From a CPA to a coding junkie??  How I Arrived Here..."
date:       2018-05-10 04:31:42 +0000
permalink:  from_a_cpa_to_a_coding_junkie_how_i_arrived_here
---


Coding, software development, and frankly anything related to technology is something that I have been passionate about since I was a young child.  I grew up in the 80's and 90's.  Computers were not too much of a household item back then and I remember when I was about 8 or 9 years old, my father brought home our family's first IBM PC Compatible computer (the exact model escapes me).  I was so excited when I learned that I could tell the machine to do whatever I wanted it to do by simply typing in some commands to a screen.  Within weeks I learned what I could about MS-DOS.  And almost every day, I would become obsessed with creating directories in directories in directories -- creating files in those directories, and the deleting them, moving them around, modifying them.....  all through DOS!  Weird fascination, but I loved the control I had over this machine!  

I moved to focusing on the hardware over the ensuing years.  I wanted to know and understand how everything inside the metal casing worked and fit together.  By around 11 years old, I was buying parts and putting my own computer together, loading it up with Windows 95, and installling and fixing other friends and family's computers.  

I was also really into video games by this point.  Over time I began to ask myself how it was that these games are made and that's when I first dreamed of being a computer programmer - I wanted to develop and build games.  I was about 15.

Unfortunately this is when the journey to making the dream become a reality came to an abrupt halt. 

For reasons that I will not go into, I had to "grow up".  I was under quite a lot of pressure to pursue a path other than making video games which seemed like a childish dream to begin with.  And so the years went by, and although I did do a one year stint in a computer science program at my university (learning OOP in Java...it was the language of choice back then!), I was still under pressure to enter into business.  And so I majored in finance hoping to end up in an investment bank and find my way to Wall Street somehow or some other major financial institution in the Asian markets.  That didn't pan out so well because of the 2008 financial crisis, and so I decided to pursue an insurance policy career - accounting.  I got my Chartered Accountant designation (Canada) and subsequently specialized further in tax.  And then I further sub-specialized in Canadian corporate tax... And then I further sub-sub specialized in Canada-US cross-border tax planning....  I found myself working over the next decade in various positions for two international accounting firms, a mid-sized accounting firm, and couple of large public companies in between.  

And yet -- I was not satisfied.  During my "grown up" years, I still had an obsession with tracking all of the latest trends in the tech world.  From the dot-com hype of the early 2000s, to the rise of HTML5, to the birth of bitcoin, the rising influence of Apple and how it rose to become one of the world's most valuable companies, the launch of every single Apple product (yes, I obsessively watched every single keynote presentation), the changing popularitly of coding languages (has Java gone the way of the dinos?), the sprouting of all of these tech startups and watching them become household names -- Facebook (RIP in MySpace), Twitter, Instagram, Whatsapp, Skype, etc., and now recently the growing popularity of blockchain technology and FinTech.... all of this gave me so much energy and yet, I could only sit on the sidelines and watch from a distance as the tech world spun from a slow crawl in my youthful days to the blistering ludicrous speed pace that it is today.  I would tell myself that I can only live vicariously through those that are already in this space because it's too late for me to get into it now that I'm in my 30's.  

I dabbled in code over the past few years, doing some free courses here and there in my spare time (which wasn't much as a professional CPA working frequently brutal hours (I hate tax season!).  While there are some great resources out there and while I did learn a lot of the basics of HTML, CSS, JS, C#, and Python, nothing stuck because there was no accountability or real life projects I could sink my teeth into.  The lessons were either too abstract or it spoonfed you so much that I wasn't really feeling challenged or learning.  Nor was there any place I could find that would not just teach me a language, but focus on teaching me how to learn to think abstractly in this world so that I could apply the theory to any language.  Having seen the popularity of coding languages change so much over the past 20 years, I knew that the focus of any training I would decide to do should be on how to think like a programmer versus learning the syntax of a particular language.  

Enter Flatiron.  

 I stumbled upon Flatiron in a rabbit hole of google searches and links one day and the teaching method, platform, and philosophy was what intrigued me.  I liked that this was one of the only schools that was dedicated to teaching students the mindset of a programmer versus teaching a particular language.  I liked that it was flexible so that I could juggle my professional life, family life, and learning software development effectively and efficiently.  I loved the mentorship, technical and non-techical, the vibrant community, and the "training wheels" approach with the Learn IDE platform, and most of all  - the hands-on and committed career support services.  
 
 It's now been just over a month since I've formally enrolled in the Online Web Developer Program on a part time basis, and though I am a bit behind (because the seasonal busyness of tax season will never end!), I am loving every part of the journey so far.  The technical challenges are exciting, finally getting code to work is one of the most satisfying feelings, and the limitless possibilities of what I can develop once I have the right tools under my belt is invigorating.   While I do hope that this journey will be the stepping stone that I have been looking for over the last decade into this tech world, and while I do hope that I can land a job, start a company, partner with another startup, develop my own applications, or leverage off my existing skillset (what does tax have to do wtih software dev?? *shrug*), I would still be completely satisfied with whatever outcome this journey will be knowing that I've finally been able to check off the "what-if-I-went-into-computers-instead" box.  Here's to an exciting year of learning to code!


